---
title: "The Scaling"
date: 2023-08-02
tags:
  - Random
---

I came across a fascinating graph recently, namely that plotting various life quantities versus weight or size, it is always a straight line. There is consistency and structure in inconsistency. The laws of life and growth are governed by mathematics. 

PLOTS TOTAL HEARTBEATS PER SIZE IS THE SAME ETC.

The scaling of a complex system has three properties. The first is that it is space-filling. 

This means that every active subcomponent needs to be allocated resources, whatever those may be. In the case of a living organism it is blood. If certain tissues would not receive blood and thus oxygen, they would die out. In the case of cities every house or building (here considered the smallest unit) needs water or electricity. Therefore it follows that these transport networks need to be able to reach anywhere, and this is of course constrained by the laws of physics.

The second is that the terminal units are invariant. 

This means that whatever the size of the entity, the terminal units of the transport network have the same size. Whether you are a mouse or an elephant, your capillaries are approximately the same size. An elephant doesn't have capillaries that are a meter-wide. And whether you are currently in a small house or a giant skyscraper, the faucet or the electricity thing (whatever this is), the size is the same. A skyscraper doesn't have giant faucets. 

The third is optimization.

Given these constraints, and the expansive outward force of life and evolution, it follows that it must be optimal in whatever it does. In life it is energy maximization, if there was a configuration that would coss less energy (and more energy would therefore be available for reproducing/whatever else life wants to do), evolution would have nudged it toward that configuration. If there was a configuration where transporting energy would cost less (and therefore yield more profit to the company) they would have done it. Important to note is that it is locally optimal, ie given the knowledge of the company this is the optimal solution, but innovation might yield more efficient methods. So it is optimal given the current state. What follows from this is that 