---
title: "The Case for Multitasking"
date: 2023-08-02
tags:
  - Random
---

Productivity Gurus right now would have us believe that multitasking is the enemy. That you have to focus on one thing... and one thing only. But if there is just one thing and you're not feeling it, then you have a choice. Then it's either do that thing with resistance, or not do that thing. In both cases a suboptimal outcome: whatever you choose, you are confronted with negativity. In the first case this negativity is resistance because you're doing something that you don't want to do. If you're lucky this resistance transmutes into inspiration, but hey, when are we ever lucky? It will feel like running a marathon, while carrying a sack of bricks behind you. (Disclaimer: Don't try this at home. The redaction will not view any of your entries. The author is not liable for any harm caused by attempting to run a marathon while carrying a sack of bricks). In the second case of negativity you are confronted with guilt because you're not doing something you're supposed to do. But if there is multiple threads you can work on, multiple tasks, then you can reject 95%, and do the one thing that you feel like doing the most. In my case, in my online note-taking tool That way you can procrastinate, AND make progress. You can reject, AND advance. You're always making progress on something, and it will feel natural, organic, resistanceless. And if you don't feel like doing it anymore, you can quit and move onto something else. There is nothing as gratifying as quitting and dropping everything while knowing that you have still been productive. Call it guilt-free procrastination. You can have your cake and it eat too! And that way you can follow your natural motivation to certain tasks and complete the tasks you feel like doing the most, while in the end completing everything you must. You're basically surfing on the waves of motivation, leading you to places strange and unknown.